# 2017-03-10

Attendees

- @alexlafroscia
- @hotell
- @lostinbrittany
- @treshugart

## Agenda

- 5.x
- Preact
- How we using Skate
- Stuff not in core

### 5.x

#### `define()` / `static is` / Webpack HMR / SSR

PR for the following here: https://github.com/skatejs/skatejs/pull/1108

Currently `define()` creates a unique ID if you don't define a `static is` prop on your element class. This is fine for HMR, but falls short when used in SSR.

For context, I almost have SSR working so long as you don't use real Shadow DOM. However, If you want anonymous element names, generating a unique ID won't work because your SSR'd content will generate a unique ID for the tag names that are serialised to the client, and the components defined on the client side - when initialising - will have a separate unique ID generate for them. This means the content generated on the server won't be initialised by the components defined on the client.

I think if we can get deterministic, unique local names working, then we will soon have a very good story for server-side rendering.

I also think the best way to generate the deterministic tag names is by using a default getter for `static is` and remove the functionality from `define()`. This would propbably be provided by a `withUnique()` mixin.

#### Lots of breaking changes. Are we okay with this?

#### Migration plan

#### Anything left to do?

#### Proposed features

- `props` setter seems almost gratuitous but could prove useful
- Does Skate really not have the async props setting issue React has? For example: `setState(callback)`. In Skate, prop values are available immediately after setting, only renders are queued.

### Preact

I've been thinking about using Preact for a long time because it removes the need to wrap code around Incremental DOM for what we wanted to do, is fast and small. That said, it was still a spur of the moment change. Is everyone okay with this?

### How are we using Skate

#### @alexlafroscia

#### @lostinbrittany

#### @hotell

#### @treshugart

### Triage remaining issues for 5.x

### Stuff not in core

- How should we organise it? Lerna repo? Separate repos?
- Like Shadow DOM shim: https://gist.github.com/treshugart/e19c2be255448cd31d261f2e8db2127c
- Contexts: https://gist.github.com/treshugart/fbc37ab7d19028b9fe22311bd1b634f4
